# HAMineGate

## What does this do?

TODO

## Why implement a hostname allowlist

See the protocol notes for a shorter version: [Protocol (Overview)](docs/PROTOCOL.md#overview)

By checking the hostname in the handshake packet, you can implement very simple allowlists (via the `haminegate.conf` config file) without needing complex authentication or backend logic. For example, you might only want to allow connections that use your official hostname in the handshake packet (in my case, any subdomains of `mc.qincai.xyz`), or block certain IP-based hostnames.

I originally wanted this because I was seeing a lot of traffic from `slowstack.tv`, a Minecraft server prober that scans IP ranges for open Minecraft servers, and other random traffic from around the world. I can (somewhat) reduce unwanted traffic by blocking connections that don't use my official domain/hostname.

By doing it at the HAProxy level, I can stop most unwanted connections before they *even* reach my backend server (Velocity), which reduces load and potential attack surface, as Velocity uses much more resources to handle a connection than HAProxy does. (and also I have to install plugins, assuming they even exist, on Velocity to do hostname-based filtering, which is *much* more work and less efficient than doing it at the HAProxy level)

## Other notes

- I considered implementing a more complex hostname-based routing system (eg. route connections with hostname `sub1.qincai.xyz` to backend A, and `sub2.qincai.xyz` to backend B), but I don't have a use case for that right now, so I just implemented a simple allow/block policy based on hostnames. Might do that in the future
- I also considered implementing a more complex IP range-based allow/block system (eg. allow certain IP ranges, block certain IP ranges, etc), but again I don't have a use case for that right now, so I just implemented a simple blocklist based on singular IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. Might do that in the future too.

## AI use policy

GitHub Copilot, Microsoft Copilot, DeekSeek V4 Flash, and potentially other LLMs were used to assist in writing some of the code and documentation, but all code and documentation was **reviewed and edited** by me to ensure accuracy and quality. Any AI-generated content that was not reviewed or edited by me is *not* included in this repository. See individual files for more details on which parts were AI-assisted (if I remember to add those details, which I may not have done for *all* files).

**TL;DR**: any and all code in this repository was tested by myself even if it was in part generated by AI.

This project has also been tested in production for several months, and is currently running on my public Minecraft server (`mc.qincai.xyz`, feel free to join!) without any known issues.

## License

This project is licensed under the Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL-2.0). See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
